qiskit.algorithms move as an independent package (#44)
Qiskit/RFCs: 0012-algorithms-migration.md

# Plan to move `Qiskit/qiskit-terra/algorithms` module to `Qiskit-community/qiskit-algorithms` independent repo

| **Status**        | **Proposed**                                                                              |
|:------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **RFC #**         | ####                                                                                      |
| **Authors**       | [Elena Peña Tapia](https://github.com/ElePT), [Steve Wood](https://github.com/woodsp-ibm) |
| **Submitted**     | 2023-07-05                                                                                |
| **Updated**       | YYYY-MM-DD                                                                                |

## Summary

This RFC was created to document the discussions around the future of the `qiskit.algorithms` module.
This module provides a series of interfaces and implementations of commonly used quantum algorithms based on 

> Qiskit's core components. Historically, the module was created as part of Qiskit Aqua, together with the now
> community-based application modules (Nature, Machine Learning, Optimization, Finance). It currently "lives"
> in `qiskit-terra`, and over the past year has been refactored to use the Qiskit Primitives and sustain the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Qiskit's core components. Historically, the module was created as part of Qiskit Aqua, together with the now
community-based application modules (Nature, Machine Learning, Optimization, Finance). It [currently "lives" in `qiskit-terra`](https://github.ibm.com/IBM-Q-General/user-feedback/issues), and over the past year has been refactored to use the Qiskit Primitives and sustain the 
```

Opflow and Quantum Instance deprecations.

The content of `qiskit.algorithms` is heterogeneous. Some components are algorithm implementations, while others
are "sub-routines" or algorithm utilities, such as gradients, optimizers or state fidelities. Some of these
utilities are implementatons from scratch, others are wrappers over commonly used libraries (such as the 
SciPy optimizers).

> With Qiskit moving towards a leaner definition, we are now revisiting the future of this module. 
> We would like to tell apart the fundamental components for algorithm design from algorithm implementations, and 
> find a better suiting location for both of them while minimizing the disruption caused to users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Qiskit moving towards a leaner definition and focusing on primitives as quantum hardware access model, the future of `qiskit.algorithms` is being revisited. The classes in the module tend to hide the primitives interfaces and serve as convenience wrappers for abstractions, beyond the current definition of Qiskit.
As such, they do provide value to users to it would be important to 
find a better suiting location for them while minimizing the disruption caused to users.
```

2. This allows for refactorings to happen in-place as a second step

This alternative is more conservative, and requires a better understanding of what the future components of 
`qiskit.algorithms` will be, and whether we want to keep the module's name and current structure. The plans
to release Qiskit 1.0 should also be taken into account, as they imply a commitment to whatever is kept 
in Qiskit. 

**Decision**

After analizing pros and cons for both options, our current plan is to design a migration plan that
follows **Path 1**. This allows us to focus on the move to the new repository as an initial step, without
deciding specifically which algorithms/utilities might be added back to Qiskit.
Should new considerations be taken into account, this plan could change.

### Migration plan

**Repos immediately affected by the plan**: `Qiskit/qiskit-terra` and `Qiskit/qiskit-tutorials`

### qiskit-terra

1. Open a PR to add a single deprecation message telling users to change their imports 
from `qiskit.algorithms` to `qiskit_algorithms`. The code will continue existing 
in `qiskit-terra` until the deprecation period is over [Blocker: release of `qiskit_algorithms-0.1.0`,
see below].

> 2. What should we do with the algorithms migration guide? we could leave it in terra during the deprecation period, 

Reviewer: Migration guides usually stay online after the deprecation period.

Author: This particular guide is for migrating from QuantumInstance-based `qiskit.algorithms` to primitive-based `qiskit.algorithms`. I am all for keeping guides for as long as possible, but I am not sure how to balance them with "completely decoupling qiskit.algorithms from qiskit" efforts. That is why we suggested to move this guide to the `qiskit-algorithms` repository (but keep the opflow/quantum instance ones in qiskit). It would stay alive but decoupled.

Reviewer 2: At least when I remember discussing this a while ago when @woodsp-ibm brought this up the thinking was that we'll have the stable docs builds for historical releases so we can just point people to: https://qiskit.org/documentation/stable/0.44/migration_guides/algorithms_migration.html and not worry about having to keep the guides in source form forever.

Reviewer 3: As we do not have older versions of docs published in the apps what we have been doing there, once a migration guide no longer can be run/built from main is to convert it as a rst file so it gets included but its content is no longer executed. I had been thinking that if the guide was wanted to be kept/publihsed longer in Qiskit that potentially in main its contents just got replaced by a link to the stable published version where it existed since the older versions of the docs were kept. That seemed simpler to me and also being a link one could state that the deprecation period was over or whatever other text you wanted there.
